The following is a conversation with Ye, the legendary artist, producer and designer, formerly
known as Kanye West on this, the Lex Friedman podcast.
Based off of our connection and just you being a friend, I need to show you my two tech companies
and get your perspective on it. Because now I have friends that can give a perspective. Like
when I would work on albums, I had other friends that worked on albums and they would give me
their perspectives on it. You want to do this? We are doing it. This is part of it. This is part
of it? Absolutely. All right. Beautiful. Oh, well, I wanted to finish. The thing is, okay,
you're going to ask me different questions, but I'm about growing and building and bringing
the idea to life. So when I see you, I say, oh, this guy understands how to hire engineers.
Where I'm coming from, coming from Hollywood, coming from press, coming from media,
all of the guys, so many of the guys that have been like voices and faces and talking heads,
whatever, have not understood how to engineer product. And that's the reason why I was able
to jump past everyone in the entertainment field and become whatever the net worth is.
I'm going to stop putting the whole black thing on my worth. Let's just see where I am
on the scale of life, because that's a cop out for me to say, rich is black guy of all time,
because that's feeding into the same trauma economy that Black Lives Matter feeds into.
That's why I love and respect engineers. That's the only thing that we really need to teach
in school is engineering. We don't need to teach history. We don't need to teach anything
that is subjective. It needs to only be engineering, taught in school, and everything
else needs to be recessed. Any force subjective information is just to weaken and indoctrinate
our species. And that's what schools do now. As an engineer, I love hearing you say that,
but to push back, history is not, the interpretation of history might be subjective,
but history has some facts, and they're useful to give a grounding to the way you do engineering.
I don't 100% believe in anything, any concept of the future or any concept of history,
because history was just written by the victors. If I see stuff happen on the day,
that later that day, is reported wrong. How wrong is something reported a thousand years ago?
And why would we argue about something that's not in the now? Because that's the only thing that
everyone can agree upon is that it is now, right now.
Yeah. Well, you try not to make the mistakes of the past. That's the usefulness of history,
the limited usefulness of history.
The biggest mistake from the past that we keep making is looking at the past.
Too much. Giving too much value to the past.
Too much value to the past. We are now. We are now. We are here. We are one species.
We are one race. We're here. And it's time. And the leadership is changing,
because you have Elon as a leader. Yay, as a leader. And we are the top leaders.
We're more influential than the presidents.
So you're a human being with engineering challenges before you, with the STEM player,
with Parler. What's the hardest thing in front of you on the engineering front?
That's the first sentence that any of our species needs to hear when they're born.
You are a human being with engineering challenges,
and I consider challenges to be opportunities in front of you.
Literally, like, let me see a piece of paper. I need to write that down.
That's the beginning of our new species constitution.
I'm going to do the paper like this wide, put it in widescreen.
This, this for Ridley, you are, no, let me like, you are a being
with engineering opportunities or challenges opportunities.
I'm sorry, I don't spell as good as John Legend opportunities
and before you. I like the before, because it can mean,
actually it can mean forward or before you. This right here, I've always said I'm the top five
writer in human existence, but this is like, this right here is pushing me to like number four,
number three. It's a good one.
Because who would you say is the top, it's top writer in human existence, we know who it is.
That's subjective. Who's that?
It's factual though. It's like, okay, who's the top person in tech history?
It's not subjective.
Wow.
There's a non-subjective answer to both of those. Both of those people have influenced
30% of our existence.
So the influence is the main metric of greatness.
Okay, one person, 30% of our language was, the English language was written by them,
the other person, 30% of the products we use was led by them.
So 30% of our language was written by them.
Oh, Shakespeare, and then the product, product, product, product.
Steve Jobs.
You put Steve above like Elon's of the world, because Steve was a designer, not,
he's a designer engineer, but he's a designer, he's a visionary in the design space.
Well, I would lean to him because I'm not an engineer, right?
So I'm more like-
Then you're an engineer. If Steve is an engineer, you're an engineer.
Essentially.
He's a cultural engineer.
Like the people who run the emotions of the world and run the world off of people's
emotions right now are social engineers.
And social engineering is so important, like city design.
There's a fancier word for that.
But I was in Oxner last night to see Anthony Jeselnick.
And I gotta find out what his opening joke was, because I'm doing interviews and I'm thinking
I'm funny. And I like that he said, he's just kept on saying 20 year anniversary,
I've been doing this for 20 years.
And his opening joke was so high level, I realized that I wasn't funny.
I realized that this dude is a professional at what he does.
And so many things are subjective. I always talk about this.
It's like, you know, people are arguing like, is Emily Radikowski the hottest, you know, person?
And I'm like, that's such a subjective thing.
But like if you go and shoot three pointers with Steph Curry, it's not subjective, right?
Or if you go and compare bank accounts with Elon, it's not subjective.
And another thing that's not subjective, porn.
What about it?
Dicksize. It's not subjective. You can measure.
But porn is more about more than just dicksize.
And greatness is more than the size of the bank account, right?
So there's a subjective.
But greatness is subjective though.
Right. So do you care about the stuff that's objective or subjective more?
Because greatness to me is what matters. The bank account comes and goes.
The impact on our society, like you said, social engineering,
the impact on the collective intelligence of our species,
that what permeates throughout the rest of the time.
I like what you said. The impact, I'm taking notes.
How did you say the impact?
On the collective intelligence of our species.
The impact on the collective.
And yeah, it's writing down the words that came out of my dumb mouth.
I have made it in life.
There's a lot of people that have kind of like sat through.
I wanted to wear a different color hoodie because I was just tired of saying this hoodie
in all the interviews. And there's a lot of kids that are with me.
They see what I'm saying.
And they had to sit through all of the muck of all the previous interviews to get to this.
Every interview has been just an emotional, it's just like been an argument up to this point.
This is the first of, this is the next frontier of where our species is going to head.
It starts here. It starts with you, Lex.
So this is the first time I heard you say the word engineering at least so many times,
which I love hearing. So this is where you're at.
You're like that newborn. You're a being with engineering opportunities.
Yeah. And we're all a newborn because in Christianity we say born again.
We're all newborns and everyone can, everyone's shell, like the word can.
The only thing about shell is it kind of dictates and can kind of let people off the hook.
So I haven't found the perfect post Shakespeare and post Steve Jobs and post Elon and post
Yay and post Drake way to communicate this. But we update and we do. And what the current
media structure, no, it's not actually nothing is holding us.
There's nothing actually holding us back because I'm still alive. I'm still alive.
Like they could have killed me at, you know, George Bush don't care about black people.
They could have killed me at Beyonce had the best video, but we're here now.
So we just keep on leaning and leaning and leaning. And there's these things where I just
think about, you know, there'll be times when I'm at war and every now and then when the,
when the bomb stopped going off and all the headlines and the smearing and all that stopped
going off, I think about my family and I think about Kim and I think about how, you know,
King Koopa has her in the castle right now. And just on Mario Brothers, you know how it is,
you go for the princess and you get to this level and it's like, I'm like, I sung the song
wrong, right? And then they take the princess again. Which one are you, Mario? Yeah.
What's your favorite thing, the thing you love the most about Kim? From a Mario perspective
and the princess? Looking back. Was there a moment? She's definitely my favorite of all time.
Yeah. Was there a moment that, you know, like that catches you off guard and you say, I love this
human being? Yeah. I mean, it's just the DNA is like, she's a mix of Rob and Chris.
Can you explain? I mean, that's like a really high pool right there.
Those are like two geniuses.
So, okay. So like the entire history of evolution of the human species created this DNA. They
created this being. There's a life there. There's a set of memories and a history that brought you
together and you're like, damn, I like this DNA. Yeah. And so certain people have just like high
DNA. Ivanka Trump has high DNA. You know, it's like- How's your DNA? Pretty good.
I think we've seen that. It's been proven. I mean, but look at my mom and look at my dad.
You know, me and my dad have a water purification center in the DR
right now. And my dad is the original Steve Jobs and he was blocked by people around him
and people were using him and taking advantage and, you know, not believing in his vision.
My dad's the educated version of yay. What did you learn about life from your dad?
And my dad got girls too. But those are small details. That's a big detail. Being that I found
my dad's, you know, playboy when I was five years old, it greatly affected my motivation.
Yeah. Okay. So that's part of the engine that drives, yay.
Absolutely. I remember when Pharrell was first in all the videos and my girl was like,
girls like Pharrell. And I was like, I want girls that like me too.
Funny that that's behind all the ambition, all the drive.
That's how we make people. That's how people are made.
It's the desire to be loved. Is that at the individual level just being noticed and also
at the societal level of scale? Well, now I've gone past. I'm like at that place
where Nikolai Tesla was later into his career where it wasn't about being loved. It wasn't
about sitting at the dinner parties next to Anna Wintour and stuff. It was about getting the idea
across. So I have these cells that are very, and I just keep on saying really Scott, but
really Scott has a special anointing. It isn't just sci-fi what he's doing. There's something in
there just like George Lucas. There's something different that's there.
So what are you drawing? I'm drawing these new living cells that we will exist in.
And this is over. Okay, let's do like,
I don't like talking about money because man made money anyway. It's like four quadrillion
respected dollars, and then you have other forms of currency. Of course, social currency is super
important right now, but this is a drawing and it's at a pretty good place now. This would be 40,000
square feet. I want to start just talking in meters. I just think we should go to
anything to restore the tower of Basil like they said when the,
I'm just draw a person here for scale. Yeah, that would help. Okay. What do you think of that?
Look at my person see the scale in this room. All right. So wait, the dot is the person? Yeah.
I'm saying it's 40,000 square feet, but that would be like. What are the other parts of the cell?
Okay, so what it's a screen. It doesn't go all the way to the top and it's one
hole for light, but the water and the light and air all come in from the top. So that's like
like the mouth and then this is the belly button. We're God's iPhone. We're his greatest creation.
So this is all connected. These are all connected. Yeah, some drawing how these other cells go next
to each other. What's the vision here? Happiness. Then we talk about like, what's the motivation?
Like, yeah, there's a motivation somewhere in the back of my mind of my family. And if it's like
where Moses smite the rock and God didn't allow him to get to the promised land,
because the promised land is family. That is the problem. That is earth. I mean, that is heaven
or earth is family. Family is heaven. That's the promised land and for your family to be together.
So say I smite the rock and God doesn't let me have my family back. My mission
and life is still to promote families at all costs and make family's existence easier. So
you take this thing, you put localized, a localized farm, say if it's in community,
that we do localized growing and then we partner with Big Pharma and all and say,
hey, you're actually going to make more money by making better food. Because at the end of
the day, you want money right now. It's like everyone knows that between the pesticides and
between the medical industry and especially America that we're keeping people sick. And
we know that McDonald's makes food that kills people and Coca Cola selling sugar water and all
this like just in case I haven't pissed off enough people in power. You're going to piss off the
sugar. Anybody that's powered on sugar. Well, sugar, what's the health was actually a documentary
on sugar. It wasn't about how bad meat was. It was like a reverse documentary on sugar.
I don't know if you call it reverse like a sub, but if you watch it again, when they show sugar
and it's just the sugar looks super clean. Yeah, just as I state, as I state these things,
I know that I know I have protection. If I have God's protection, that's why I'm here
to this state, right? So it's for me to have this platform and express exactly what I feel
because it's kids out there, right? That it's kids that are going to save the world through
engineering and through facts. And I've got to get download as much of the information and as much
of the don't be afraid to state your facts is the biggest thing because the world is being
ran by fear. And that is, no, actually God runs the world, but there's just like little cloud,
this patina of our ego that deals with the money and the car and the girl we're dating and all
this in the clothes you wear and spending too much on clothes. And a lot of stuff that I've
been involved with promoting. So now what I'm promoting is you have the idea, you say it out loud,
like if you had Tourette's, say your truth out loud. If you hate, yeah, you hate me, say that
out loud, say whatever you feel out loud. Like you say it nonviolently, nonviolent. I have to
say that as a shout out to Alex Jones and Trump where they try to say that when they say their
truth's out loud that it's inciting violence. So let's be like really clear. I'm saying that
they have criminalized free thought. I hate when people use they, like they gets to blame for
everything, right? It's always they. Who the fuck is they? Exactly. The problem is they's us.
Yeah. Well, I love that. What we needed to do is turn I to we. So we take the responsibility
and turn they to us. So we take accountability to us. They to I to we and they to us.
And that relates, it's a language at the same time you're seeing the language
of our surroundings. You're seeing the language of, one of the things, okay, let's go back to the
cell explanation because I'm also doing a, what's that thing when Elon just put all the information
open and people could figure out, they could figure it out and open source. So I'm open sourcing
this idea right now so that, you know, engineers and anointed people beings, anointed beings can
collectively contribute to this, to push our species forward. So where I've got to with my
research is that there will be a hole at the top that allows natural light, natural air,
and there's a constant water system. So it becomes like a water city where it's a constant flow
that's not, it's, it's regenerative. It's not wasting the water and it's just a constant flow.
So I put the toilet really close to where this, this, I don't want to call it a wave pool,
but in the pool, the water is not still. So that exists in, in water, surrounded by water.
Well, the living room is, you have two rooms, you have the dry room, which people have called
a living room before, and then you have the wet room. How is that a source of happiness?
What is broken about our world today that that gives you in terms of the pursuit of
happiness is just one of the things in the previous declaration of it.
All of our buildings are based on just the industry and the economy. And then people lean
into what people are used to seeing. Like what we think is attractive, because then you go back to
the, you know, women who give life. So everyone wants to be attractive to the attractive.
And that's the reason why the media goes and gets, you know, Bella Hadid, Kim Kardashian, Emily
Radikowski. Those are the only ones I'm going to, there's more. There's more, but I'm, I'm
thinking of ones that I think are attractive. It is subjective. Yeah, because it's subjective. So
to my subjective, which I think, I think the only guys that could argue with me on, on my opinion,
on girls would be Brad and Leo, because we're the only ones with the track record, you know,
everything else. So if everybody else is subjective, we've got history. So are you,
are you, are you happy? Absolutely. I'm just here. It's actually,
it's difficult to make me unhappy. Now I could deal with frustrations,
but when those frustrations are, it's like, when you've allowed people to be in your life that
shouldn't be there, and then they do the thing you knew they were going to do and you're screaming
at them, but you really need to scream at yourself. Yeah. So you realize anything that's like anger
or frustration, that's something that's wrong with you that needs to be dealt with.
Yes. Like right now, okay, say I got this pattern cutter that I wanted
to remove because I felt like she was copying our patterns into the computer,
and I didn't know why she wanted to do that. And I just wanted to do the patterns by hand.
And then, you know. You mean like automating the patterns? Yeah. And my head of it,
because they just, that's the whole thing. It's like,
it's a war of, it's a war of human beings and robots. Yeah, but that makes them more efficient,
right? You don't like the efficiency. You like the creativity of the singular nature of the pattern.
I believe that the human beings, and I'm saying this to you as a person who makes robots and a
person who's friends. I'm deeply offended right now. Yeah. But I'll, you know, I'll let it go.
Okay. So yeah, I believe that the- Yeah, it hates robots. I'm not gonna put that out. It's a joke.
Robots have feelings too. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. That was also a joke.
We need to clarify that for future robots. But the pattern cutter, the pattern cutter,
you don't like that. That had to be that you can't have that part of your life.
That's not what I'm, I'm, my, everything that I'm doing is for
the sake of the human race. There's things in capitalism, there's things
in technology. Well, tech, technology and original human species can exist in a peaceful way.
As long as the people that know how to make robots aren't using their robots to control the humans.
Lex? Definitely something I have to be concerned about as we become more
technological savvy. That, my friend, is why engineering isn't everything,
that you have to desperately study the lessons of history. In Nazi Germany, science was used
to create atrocities. Engineering the same. Engineering could be a tool of war.
We are still in the Holocaust. A friend, a Jewish friend of mine said,
go visit the Holocaust Museum. And my response was, let's visit our Holocaust Museum, Planned
Parenthood. With all due respect, I grew up in the Soviet Union. I'm Jewish.
Parts of my family perished in the Holocaust of Nazi Germany. I have to push back that there is a
difference of the atrocities at that scale, at that time, on an entire people.
I was going to say the number, that's the difference. It's not the number.
Because six million will also, African Americans are actually Jew also, the lost tribe of Israel.
Push back on that too. Okay, so everyone came from Africa.
I'm African. I'm basically African American. We're brothers.
And we're both Jew and we're brothers. We're human.
Six million people died in the Holocaust. Over 20 million have died by the hands of abortion.
The media promotes the my body, my choice, which is actually still a promotion for Planned
Parenthood. 50% of Black deaths a year is actually abortion. It's not the cop with the knee.
It's not Black on Black violence and gang violence. It's not heart attacks. It's actually abortion.
The most dangerous place for a Black person in America is in their mother's stomach.
There's 902 million abortions in the United States a year. I hear you.
But there's something about the rape, the torture, the murder of children, women, men,
the complete humiliation and just the suffering that was endured during World War II.
That's what we deal with on our TVs right now with Black people.
Soros would use Black trauma economy to win an election.
And what I love is having a healthy conversation and as opposed to, there's certain things,
you know, boom, this drops, people are going to have pussy hats on. Boom, this drops is going to be,
you know, Black people and white people with signs. Boom, this drops. So, hey, China,
hey, left agenda, hey, what we're going to do is say that our species can have a healthy conversation.
Can I just linger on this? Because when you say Jewish media,
there's an echo of a pain that people feel that reminds an entire...
You're saying it's redundant, right?
No, I'm not saying it's redundant. I'm saying it's redundant.
You're saying it's redundant.
It's a redundant thing.
I'm saying that it's something that Joseph Goebbels, the propaganda minister of Nazi Germany said.
I'm saying it's been said so many times in order to murder and torture Jewish people
that it just rings wrong.
Just like the N word when spoken by people that have the same skin color as me,
it reminds people of a very dark time.
I know. If Jewish people would accept that I'm Jew,
then they would see what I'm saying in a different way. They would hear it in a different way.
But see, the people, you saying you're Jewish, that...
No, I'm Jew. Not Jewish.
Jewish means like that of a Jew. I'm saying I'm Jew.
You're Jew.
Blood of Christ.
That comes from...
Right.
Are you a follower of the philosophy of the black Hebrew Israelites?
Because that's where the idea comes from.
Not all of those folks are extremists, but some are extremists.
I'm a follower of the idea. I have a vague idea that all people came from
Africa, but what I wanted to do...
Okay, now I could Andy Kaufman this about seven more minutes and then tell you what it is.
Should I count?
What the whole point is?
Let's count. Seven minutes.
No, I did this to do a spoiler alert.
Sure, spoiler.
What's the first thing I said at the beginning?
We're talking about engineering and humans, we're all human.
And I said, and then what did I say we shouldn't focus on?
Race.
Not just that. I said, they shouldn't teach this in school.
History.
The history because what they do, what schools are doing is exactly what the CIA
does with Pixar films and Disney films. They make Bambi's mom die in the beginning,
right? And off that pain comes a purchase of ice cream.
Off that pain comes, I need some more toys.
Off that pain comes, I need a bigger house.
Off that pain comes, I need more girls than my wife.
Off that pain comes, so they put that pain in to make us, now we're the orphans of capitalism,
to make us be consumers and we need to be a community, not just consumers.
So I could have went another seven minutes by being a person
who presents himself in a way that says, well, I don't have to feel your pain
because I also have pain too that's not being recognized.
And in every interview, when I say, well, why did I get to the point of putting up the tweet,
no one wants to understand why I got to that point, right?
You had pain.
Yeah.
You had pain in your heart.
But let's say this, undoubtedly Jewish people have a lot of movies about that pain
and black people have a lot of movies about the pain of slavery, right?
It's almost impossible to find a movie about Mansa Munsa.
When you go to the African History Museum in Washington, D.C.,
it doesn't start with the idea of Africans being kings.
It starts with the idea of Africans being slaves.
But here's another interesting point about this.
This was said to me one time and it stuck with me as a family member of mine.
With Africans, how many times you've heard like a rapper or, you know, talk about we were kings.
That's incorrect if we're Jew.
If we're Jew and since we are, we weren't the kings.
We were the slaves that Moses freed.
Africans have always said, we've heard, you've listened to rap music and hear black people say,
we kings, we blood of the pharaohs.
And if we are Jew, then we weren't.
We were the people that Moses freed.
And when we talk about, have you heard black people talk about 400 years of slavery?
All right, that is, and we're having this history lesson, right?
I thought history doesn't matter.
You're exploring ancient history and drawing deep wisdom from it.
And at the same time saying, we need to forget all of it.
We need to put that behind us.
Absolutely.
We need to forget it and we need to move forward.
There is so much wisdom to draw from history, even the 20th century.
Look at this communism without the lessons of history of the 20th century.
Communism sounds like a great idea, except that some of the worst atrocities
conducted by Stalin and Mao that killed 500 plus million people,
not just killed, tortured, starvation, where people, the cannibalism, they ate each other.
They ate their children.
There's just dark people.
People should read some books on this on the hall in Amor in 1930s.
But I disagree.
With that lesson, we would, and now it's becoming more popular, Marxism and communism.
I'm not disagreeing that that happened.
I'm disagreeing that we need to harp on the things that happen.
Because the truth is, I'm giving a fact.
50% today of, let's say, you don't call black people Jew, right?
Black people's deaths today is a abortion today right now.
Like that, it's not racism.
That's too wide of a term.
It's genocide and population control that black people are in today in America
that is promoted by the music and the media that black people make that Jewish record labels
get paid off of or media companies, record labels media company also.
So let's give it a wider, you know,
I agree with Martin Luther King.
I have a dream too, that one day you would not be judged by the color of your skin or your race,
black or Jew, but by the content of your character,
all the assholes that fucked you over in the music industry,
fuck artists over in the music industry, are individuals.
They're not Jews.
They are Jewish.
They're human with opportunities and they took those opportunities.
I don't care if they're Jewish.
Do you feel like I should release that pain and separate it?
Yes.
Okay, so if you're saying I should release that pain and separate it,
then I'm telling you, you should release your pain and separate it.
And we could get to this, the list of how you are being with engineering opportunities.
That's 100%.
I see what you're doing, that exactly you're doing.
The pain, I'm going to let it go, engineering challenges, I get it.
One of the problems you highlight is people get fucked over in the music industry
and get fucked over in the media, get fucked over all over the place.
They created, there was a Jewish trainer that brought me to the hospital and put
in press that I went to the hospital.
I know friends that off of exhaustion, a Jewish doctor, they diagnosed me because they were.
Diagnose me with bipolar disorder and shot me with medication and put me on medication,
then put it in the press and every time, even if I wore the wrong color hat that a nigger is not
supposed to wear, then they immediately say he's off of his shit, he's off his meds,
he's off of his rocker and it's literally used as a scarlet letter control mechanism
for the people understand the kids, the colleges, the high schools.
What do you think they put me right now?
They put me as the prophet, not the leader.
It doesn't have to be the leader, because we need a more intelligent person to be the leader,
but at least they put me as the prophet.
They put me as the only person that would say this and I'm just saying that was four
Jewish members that controlled my voice because for the fact that 90% of black people in entertainment
from sports to music to acting are in some way tied into Jewish business people.
Meaning that in some way, just like if Ram is sitting next to Obama or Jared sitting next to
Trump, there's a Jewish person right there controlling the country, the Jewish controlling
that who gets the best video or not, controlling what the media says about me.
It's a person, not Jewish.
Let me just say one thing.
But they are though, that's the only thing, it just so happens that they are.
That doesn't mean that I hate them, that just means that they are.
But it's a dog whistle too.
Let me just say, as I would love to add more love to the world, I would love you to do that
as a person with a big voice, with a big powerful voice that a lot of people look up to.
And when you say Jewish media, it's funny how this world works that way.
When you say Jewish media or Jews are controlling the voice of black artists, black people, black
artists.
When you say that, I'm not allowed to say it out loud.
You can say it.
There's a large number of people that are hurting and have anger and even have hate in their heart
when they hear Jewish media, they start, that hate starts being directed towards the Jewish people.
Do you acknowledge that?
Can you feel the hate in the world that comes to the surface when you say stuff like that?
Okay, I feel that when we go into therapy, my dad was a therapist.
And obviously I've got some therapy skills myself.
A lot of people, my music is healing, these type of spa-like existences are healing,
the color palace I use are healing, and we can use healing words, right?
What I really feel there, I feel that there's no accountability and no responsibility on
Jewish people in media to at least start with owning up with the facts of what's dealt with
and tell me if I say the facts out loud, to the point of Ari Emanuel writing a letter in
the Financial Times trying to take food out of my children's mouth, telling people that
they're not allowed to work with me. Even Chris Como or Pierce Morgan getting me to apologize and
separate Jewish business people from the families of the Jewish business people, which I did,
update. I did that, that already happened. That was a shitty apology. That wasn't really an apology.
But shout out for that conversation. I need to get on my knees and kiss the dick of Howard Stern.
You don't need to kiss anyone's dick.
That's what you guys are acting like. You guys, look at that.
Because you're talking about it as a shitty opinion, apology, but where's our fucking apology?
Watch this. We don't get... Thank you. Let's move on.
What? Sorry. Do I need to get on my knees or no?
And kiss my dick. Just escalated quickly. That's escalated quickly.
No, I'm saying where's our apology, but we can't get to apology because you're telling me there's
no right way for me to word it. So tell me, for me, a person who's been fucked on my deals
and a person that has friends that never figured out how to make shoes with a German company
that couldn't tell me to wear a BLM shirt and take off my red hat,
like what would have happened if I was at Nike, right?
Tell me exactly how to engineer the situation I'm in.
Tell you exactly how. You got a big voice. Have the balls as a man to call out the individuals.
Don't call them Jews. Call them by their name and start a war against those individuals.
They're not Jewish. But if that's the case, will you help me with that?
Sure. Okay. 100%. Assholes are asked. Well, let me like flip that too. I don't understand the industry.
Well, I see that people are fucking people over for sure. But how do you solve that?
If you run... If you right now run the world's... You're doing a million things,
but say you ran also a record label. I have ran a record label. I've been ran by a record label
where I was the face of a record label and had Big Sean and different people complaining to me.
And I knew fuck about running a record label. I was simply just a talented producer
and an influencer that then started good music, but I wasn't the one running good music.
How would you do it differently? This is something I propose. I would look at
the top 10 execs in three fields, in sports, film, and music. And I would look at the top 10
clients, participant act talent. I would look at the top talent in each of those fields,
the top 10 of them. And some of them are going to be Tom Brady. Some of them are going to be Taylor
Swift. Some of them, they're not all going to be black, right? Some of them will be Adele,
right? And we'll look at all their contracts transparently and we'll compare the notes
and re-engineer like it's a new constitution. Because when I told my dad, when I was 19,
I was going to get into the music industry, he begged me not to. He said, I heard it's treacherous.
Now I'm in a position where I've been through it. I saw it. I went out, made some money somewhere
else. I saw my name get smeared. I saw my family get destroyed. I saw my reputation get destroyed.
And I'm back here to have this kind of... I'm back here as a being with engineering opportunities.
If you say as a shitty apology, what is the version of the apology short of kissing Howard
Stern's dick? I don't think anyone wants to kiss Howard Stern's dick. That's the whole point,
Howard Stern. Nobody wants to kiss your dick. So shut the fuck up. I said, by the way,
I'm antagonizing you, Howard Stern. I used to be a fan of you. Yeah, me too. Yeah. I'm still a fan
sometimes. Now you're just doing clickbait like everybody else. Now you're just a sad old man,
Howard. All right. Now, Howard Stern, this is the first time anyone's said your name in years.
Your own family doesn't say your name unless they're calling to get their bills paid.
You're going hard. See, that's beautiful right there. That's much better than calling Jewish
media. Go after individuals. Go after individuals. You don't talk shit about me. Talk shit about me.
This is great. And you know what that is? Yeah, what's that?
Engineering. That's an engineer's approach. Yeah, engineers. Yeah. Yeah, you should learn some of
that. We all can use our pain against each other or we can say we're being with engineering
opportunities and we can know about history. So let me change something. We can have
a, just to be judgmental, people say that should not judge. I've been talking to Camille Vasquez.
She says, I'm very judgmental. That's what we're doing. I believe, now you could go to Bible and
one thing's going to say one thing, another thing may be contradicted in a way and then the pastor
has to unpack it. I believe that we are to judge. If you look at some food and it's got a fly coming
out of it, you can then judge at that point. You're supposed to use your better judgment.
Whenever someone doesn't want to change something they're doing, they'll say,
don't judge me. But as a species, you call for me, you got the breakthrough. And by the way,
it's only an engineer that I would respect to tell me of how to update how I'm communicating.
Because this started off, right? I've been through all these interviews. Let me go to this. You said
this was a sorry apology. I was very specific. I said the Jewish, because by the way, it's a barrage,
right? It's a thing where I don't even remember the names at a certain point, right? It's like,
if a girl was getting raped by men,
if that person's not 18, right? And she was getting raped since 14, right? And she still
got this face, this super like Irina Shake level face, right? She might say, I hate men.
That woman may say, I hate men. She might get to that point because she was raped. On my contracts,
and no one can say this is ramped up. No one, Howard Stern can't say this is ramped up. Ari
Emmanuel can't say this is ramped up. George Soros knows damn well that I'm not ramped up.
George Soros knows like, wow, this guy's like a younger guy that's looking at what I did and
looking at how I control the world silently. And he's calling it out. And he's not using any of
the fear tactics. I can't send his homeboys around him. I can't send his wife to him. This guy,
that's what George Soros sees, right? When he's dealing with me, right? So what you guys are
actually asking me to do, I'm comparing myself to that 18 year old beautiful woman that had been
mistreated by men for four years of her life, right? And you're saying, as a man, you can't blame
all men. And I'm saying as a responsible forward philosopher leader, okay, I'll drop the pain.
And I will specify because I'm up here. I lost my fucking family. I lost my kids. I lost my best
friend in fashion. I lost the black community. I lost, you know, people said I lost my mind.
All of these things lost my reputation. And I'm up here just like, I just want my family,
but I don't want my family to have to say what the left wants us to say. To have to say what
China wants us to say. I want to be an American and protect my kids and protect my wife and raise
my kids as Christians and have my wife be a Christian and innovate and America made rock
and roll. I want to innovate as a creative person and be a successful American. But all of that
had been taken away from me. So I'm coming back and I'm removing the PSTD right now, right? I'm
standing up and saying the only way that we're going to be able to get past this and the way God
is going to use me right now is for me to stop talking about the pain, stop talking about what
happened and do something about it. And that's where I'm at right now in this moment. Like, yeah,
people agree. At least there was something where you could say he has a reason of why he got to
that tweet. And what you're doing for me today is saying, yo, that was a sorry apology. And let's
specify, I'm not asking for anyone out here to empathize or sympathize for a, you know,
a dude worth $11 billion that can make money disappear, I mean, appear at a thin air in five
different industries, you know, I'm not asking for the I'm not asking for anybody to sympathize with
someone who's married to Kim Kardashian dated Irene and shake, but like, I feel like I'm just not
going to get the sympathy vote in this situation. Right. So I feel your pain. I feel, yeah, I feel
like no one's going to feel my pain. Only only Brad and Leo could feel my pain. Right. So the,
so, but still, but here today, when you said as a sorry apology, what's the, what's the apology
that you're looking for as a, as a Jewish engineer, not say as Lex, let's not talk about
you being Jewish as Lex. What's the apology that you want me to say to, am I allowed to say Jewish?
Tell me, is it anti-semitic for you to say Jewish out loud? No, there's a, I don't like the allowed
that presumes censorship. I think you choose, you have a powerful voice. Did I prove, did I,
did I prove that there was censorship over the past two weeks? I proved it. Who censored you?
Oh, drink champs. Oh my Lord. Oh, like Twitter and so on. Twitter. That has less to do. Drink
champs. That hurt you, that drink champs, that Nora took it down, took down your conversation. No.
It didn't hurt you. Man, you got to be honest about the pain.
What's still the kids we used to be? I put my hand on the stove to see if I still bleed
and nothing hurts anymore. I feel kind of free. No, do you think,
you know, I went to Japan for two to three months, right? The day I had Sunday service,
my kids are supposed to be there and my kids would know where to be found.
And I text Kim and said, where are my kids? We get into an argument and then I get a text
from a number I don't know and it's Pete Davidson bragging about being in bed with my wife.
Then... Just fucking with you?
Well, at that point, it's like they're trying to put me in jail or put a friend of mine in jail
because then I'm going to go surround the hotel and do all, you know, do something
which would have me not be able to be here. And instead I walked away from that situation.
I went to Japan, like the samurai that I am, and went to the top of the mountain.
Because I knew that, I mean, I knew there was no way she could love this dude,
not just because he's ugly, he's not black. She likes black guys. Every guy that she,
you know, is wit, looks exactly the same. Ray J, Reggie Bush, at that time Kanye West,
she has a type, just like how I have a type. Like a lot of my girls look kind of similar to her
because in a video game character, people have, people have their type, right? So I knew that
this was like... The princess has a type and she likes Mario. Right, there you go.
As somebody cares for you and hopefully can be a friend. Yay, I gotta say these words and the
words about Jews is not the words of a samurai, of a great man. I would say, you know, you said
something that inspired, that resonated with a lot of people when you said George Bush doesn't
care about black people. I have to say, as somebody who cares for you, that yay,
the artist formerly known as Kanye West, doesn't care about Jewish people. In the same way you
spoke about George Bush being a politician and not giving a fuck about the poor people that
suffered after Katrina, you're not giving a fuck about the suffering of the Jewish people
across the world. Why am I not? Because you're feeding, you're giving strength, motivation to
hate groups. But we already updated, I gave an apology, you said it wasn't good enough.
Yeah, that's right. And now you're telling me, no, I'm not gonna...
You don't need to kiss anyone's dick. What you have to do is to say, it was wrong to say,
there's no Jewish media, there's no Jewish... There isn't.
There's no control of the media by Jewish people. You're an engineer, brother. If you're an engineer
and you're not holding to the truth, that's not engineering. Engineering is not, that's not,
that doesn't, that's hate, that's not engineering. Engineering costs... I'm gonna build a better
record label. It's called stereotypes. And I'm going to respect our... Stereotypes exist for a
reason. Engineers don't do stereotypes. I do. Stereotypes are dumb. They allow you to channel
hate towards the other. You know what the biggest thing is? Yeah.
With something, a veteran that was sitting next to me at Cheesecake Factory last night,
he said, you know, the general justice, he serves for whoever is the president, right?
And he said, what's happening in politics is we're forgetting we're on the same side.
We're forgetting we're on this. This is someone is practically... Now he's a nurse. So he's still,
you know, fighting for humanity in a way. He went from holding, you know, guns in battle to being
a nurse and when people are battling for their lives. And he said, we're forgetting we're on the
same side. This is a person that no matter who becomes president, he can still be told to go to war.
And the chaos that's created by the media has split the country in half. And what we... What
us as beings with an engineering opportunity need to do right now is find the blue water.
Where do we... Where are places that we agree on? And I want you to finish everything...
I'm going to let you finish everything that you want to express to me. Get off all... I'm your
scarecrow today. I'm your punching bag today for everything I did. And I want you to stand up for
all of the hate that I'm your Al Gore when he lost the election. Remember, he almost became a
punching bag for the lady that had voted on him. And she just said all this stuff. And he's like,
I know, I agree with you, right? But there's nothing, you know, that he could do about it.
With this, it's like things that you're saying, I agree with you. You know, it's like if you sit
some kids in the... In the principal's office and I punch somebody, right? I took... I took my hand,
right? As what it really means. Even Aria Emmanuel had to say, this is a pop icon, right? And I went
and just punched an entire people at one time or said that I was about to... I went like this,
right? And I got blacked out, black mirrored, done, right? And it's like, what were you even
going to do? And why did you go like this? I went like this because I can't even do... I would look
insane to physically show you a metaphor, a physical representation of my last 20 years
of what I've been through as a musician, as a father, and as a black person with a political
opinion. A great man still through the pain does the right thing. And I think the right thing
is to not say that there's Jewish control of the media. That's incorrect, though. That's a
fucking lie. There is. And they did come and bully me. It proved the point. No, the reason you don't
say it is because the world is much bigger than the, forgive me, the narrow little world you exist in.
Your impact stretches way past those little boardroom meetings over contracts.
So what should I have done? What should I have done?
Not say that you should be a strong man that doesn't mention,
that doesn't mention religion or people and then fight. Do you want to win this fight?
How do I win? How do we win?
Call out individual people built. That's one way because they have a big voice. The other voice
that I prefer is to build another label. I feel like you're controlling my creative narrative and
because just like how you're telling me I shouldn't have said that,
do you think there are people telling me I shouldn't have wore a red hat?
No, because you asked me, what should I have done? You're supposed to be a scarecrow,
so I thought I'm going to beat the shit out of the scarecrow with my words, right?
You let me. It was consensual.
The punching bag is a bit, because scarecrow actually has a different real name.
Yeah, that's right. I'm not a good person.
So let's say a punching bag. I shouldn't say a scarecrow.
But every single person that I've sat with from the point when I wore the red hat to now has
done the same thing. Sit in the principal's office and don't do what you're doing.
We're in the generous closet right now together. The red hat is very different. The red hat is
you have a set of beliefs. You represent half the country that has a hope, a vision for the
future of America that's very different than without any purpose whatsoever saying Jewish
media, Jewish control of the media.
You said there's no purpose, so you're taking away my history and my reason of what my purpose was.
I'm saying it was done.
Also, I'm speaking my voice vocalizing.
Also, it's God's plan. There's a lot of things that open up. Let me tell you something that
opened up. There's a guy, like I told you, that was running STEM player who I've had issues with,
we hadn't got paid on certain things, right? And he took his IQ, his know-how, his engineering
know-how to, he basically was trying to adidas me with, even though I was the bigger money in
the situation, that was fun and we funded together. And he hired these engineers and he said,
well, because of your comments, we're not going to be able to hire anybody else.
And I was like, well, how many Jewish people do we have in our company? He said,
I don't know. He didn't say exactly, right? I said, do we have Black people? He said,
yes, I said how many? He said two. So we have like 60 full-time employees, like 40 half-time
and part-time. And I took as a responsibility, let's take a step back from us being one species
and say, hey, you're Jewish, I'm Black, right? For this example, for the sake of this example.
And I said, wow, I'm sure I could hire more than two Black engineers. And what happens is,
because there are so many businessmen that just so happen to be Jewish, that it's good
business, right? Just to monopolize. That's what people are looking. Everybody wants to be Elon,
right? So the- I just agree with that. Okay, but let me finish this point.
I'm going to let you finish. I'm going to let you finish.
A lot of businessmen want to be as successful as Elon and as popular as Elon. A lot. Like,
I just worded like that, which I hate the term a lot, actually. I want to be more specific,
but I don't- I haven't done the math on it. Let's say some. Factually, for sure, there are some
business people of all different walks and backgrounds that would like to be as rich
and as popular as Elon Musk. So let me just take a step back from the we're one species
into the we're separated by race, gender, socioeconomic class conversation and say,
as a black owner of two tech platforms, hardware and software, I need to take
action. Let's not call it affirmative. Let's just say I need to take action and I need to take
accountability and ensuring that black engineers are hired. And guess what? Hired together.
Because when the black people that are brilliant are separated from our culture,
we forget who we are. And we'll get to a point where, you know, OJ would say, I'm not black,
I'm OJ. Because just to be on the golf course, we put on the golf shirt. But the golf shirt
might not be something that our culture would have done. And now our culture in poorer communities
everybody's got Draco on them. Everybody's got a gun on them. Oh, if you run up on me on a gas
station, I'm going to kill you. Hey, you ain't got to talk to me like a man if I haven't killed at
least five people. But you know what happens is we can kill five people, we could kill 10 people
and still be in the media as long as we play by the rules, right? Because what will happen is
any of these guys that have talked about killing people in different things, unless Trump
had pardoned them, right? But let's say, even if Trump had pardoned them, they could still go to
someone like a little boozy or meek mills or puff daddy, anybody, and say, hey, we need you to talk
shit about yay right now. And also you're not allowed, if you do want to vote for Trump or vote
outside of what this arrangement is, then we're going to put you in jail. And we're not going to
bring you down. We have this on you. You get what I'm saying? If I had ever killed someone,
if I wasn't the bitch with the pink polo on, I wouldn't be able to be the vocal man that I am
today. You understand what I'm saying? This is the reason why I'm happy that my gangster
disciple brothers kept me from the initiations, which made me feel like a pussy my whole life,
right? But now I am someone who legally can say this. Other people in my position,
they legally cannot speak. They legally cannot speak, or they will go to prison.
I am in a bit of a glass prison because I don't have say so of where my children go to school.
But I'm in a freedom place where I can have this conversation with you right now.
And that is, I don't like the word breakthrough. That's God's hand on this situation.
But you get what I'm saying about, if I hadn't said the tweet, I wouldn't have had to take the
accountability myself to hire black engineers into my two tech platforms.
Yeah. And do you get what I'm saying? That's a beautiful personal journey you're on.
But do you get what I'm saying? That personal is for my people as a whole.
As a tribal person, as a small company, as a tribal person, I believe that I am my people.
And the thing that businessmen have done to my people have pulled the brightest out of our tribes
and siloed them and made us lose our culture and lose who they were. All the only thing I wanted
to say a Virgil's funeral, which I wasn't allowed to. It was a white pastor that talked the majority
of the funeral. Half the funeral was pissed. And this pastor actually married me and Kim.
He looks like Justin Timberlake a little bit. And he talked half the funeral. He knew Virgil's
passing, did a collaboration with him before he passed, by the way, right? A clothing collaboration.
I didn't know Virgil was passing, but the thing I wanted to say, I saw ASAP Rocky and I saw some
other members of his gang, you know, in the audience at the funeral. And all I wanted to tell him is,
don't let them split the gang up. Don't let them split the gang up. When I did the first Yeezy,
because I did Kanye West two fashion shows before as a high-end luxury, all-leather kind of
designer, not all leather, but you know, high-end materials, mink, this kind of thing.
And then I came back with Yeezy with Adidas. And this fashion show was so popular that Justin
Bieber had to sit in the second row, right? This thing had every name you could think of. It had
Kim Kardashian, Kris Jenner, Kendall Jenner. It was Kylie's first fashion show she'd been in.
And in the second fashion show, I put Kylie and Bella Hadid next to each other
in the fashion show. You had Puff Daddy. At that time, Puff Daddy had beef with Drake. Drake
still came to the show and Jay-Z had to break up the fight backstage. The designers, you had Jerry
Lorenzo, that's head of Fear of God. You had Kim Schwab, head of Skims. You had Virgil Abloh, head of
Louis Vuitton. You had Dimna, head of Balenciaga, all working for the leader, for the philosopher,
for the person that put, who put this together? Me, that's who. You had these people working for
the king in New York, basically the boss. Yeezy in the audience, Rihanna in the audience,
Beyonce in the audience, sitting next to Anna Wintour in this audience. And guess who heard
wind of this? One of the richest men in the world, Bernard Arnault caught wind of this.
What's going on? They're building up something and we need to stop it. So then he met with me
and politely offered me backing from my clothing line. It would be Kanye West, they would get
49%, 51%, I would get 49%, they'd have control and they were going to give me all of the support
from Louis Vuitton. So I had to go to Adidas and I told Adidas, hey, let's adimnify the apparel.
So Adidas, you're not going to do the apparel anymore. Hey, we had a, we had a good time,
but we're going to run off with Giselle now, right? So the, that's like you told your girl
that and you're like, ah, no, we're supposed to, we had the proudest moment of our career and so.
So then he offers me the deal and Alexander Arnault, who's went to gone on and rape and pillage
from all of the talent that I had afterwards, said, I say, before I tell Adidas to adimnify
the apparel, can I get a written contract from your dad, Bernard Arnault? And he says, my dad
will never go back on his word. So you already know what this thing is going, right? You can
spoiler alert, right? He went back on his word. So three months into the deal, I get Anna Winter,
I say, who should I use for my lawyer? She picks my lawyer for me, right? I just found out even a
couple of days that the lawyer demanded an airplane during negotiations, had nothing to do with me,
right? They said the Bernard Arnault got freaked out and then Alexander Arnault calls me and says,
the deal got dropped at the board. I went back and told my high maintenance wife,
I was supposed to become this designer at Louis Vuitton or the Louis Vuitton group was going
to back the Kanye West line because that's how good I've done in fashion, babe. And now the deal
has dropped. Now the deal has dropped. So then I did a second collection and we didn't have any
support to be able to build the collection. Then I went and found and third collection, we did it.
We took over MSG. Fourth collection went and the show started an hour late. Then a week later,
Kim got robbed. Then I told Scooter Braun, my manager at that time, I say, I, I'm looking,
you know, I need to go to Japan. I'm tired. I'm tired. He says, no, you need to make more money.
I do four more shows on a second leg of the tour and I suffer from exhaustion and go to
the hospital and then get diagnosed with a disorder. This is the first time I ever suffered
from exhaustion. By the way, I haven't been to the hospital since. I haven't been to the hospital
since and haven't taken, you know, medication in two years. And I'm sure there'll be people
in the media, we won't say, we're from, we'll say, well, that's obvious, right? So,
so right now I'm talking to you, right? I'm not on medication. I just go to sleep, right? I have
sleep. Have you been able to sleep? This, that's, that's, that's, that's too low hanging fruit for
you. You're, you're more, you're, I, I, I expect more. I agree. I agree. I agree. That was dumb.
I regret it. That's like, that's like, that's like Pierce Morgan trying to grab ratings. Everybody,
you got a whole life ahead of you. You got a whole life ahead of you. You got these guys
are at the end of their life. Oh, good. Good. Good. So this story.
Call me out of my shit. I love it. But then, amidst that, the same guy that dropped my deal,
Bernardo, I know, goes and hires my best friend, goes and hires my main engineer, right? It would
have been like them hiring, you know, Elon from Peter, before they figured out Paul,
before they figured out PayPal. But it, it all, Paul, it sounds like, uh, it all,
Paul sounds like Paul. I just said, cause I'm a Christian. I thought it was cool.
But it would have been like, what if someone could have went in and took Elon away from
Peter before they pay Paul, before they, I just, cause they pay Paul, before they pay Paul,
before they, it just too close. It just sounds so fresh. The fact that it's so close, right?
And that's, that's what happened, right? They broke the gang up. And I'm telling you right now,
that hadn't happened. Virgil's alive. I'm still married. You know what I'm saying? The power
structure was broken then, right? Because we were building some, Kylie wasn't a billionaire that,
you know what I mean? We were building something together that a French colonizer came in
and caught it early and tried to destroy it. But the only thing is God is alive and I'm anointed.
And even with those drawbacks, losing my wife, losing my friend, uh, uh, exhaustion, um,
all of these late night tweets that piss off an entire group, you know, like this,
this, the frustration still there. We work, I work for God and God runs the world and we'll see
what, we'll see what happens. But in those words, don't you feel that being split up?
Don't you feel you're doing the thing that you stand against, which is playing victim?
Aren't you playing victim to the forces in the world? I didn't play, I didn't even get a chance
to play. I just said I was about to. I said like this, like, no, you played pretty damn well.
What do you mean? What do you mean about to? You're like one of the greatest designers in
history, fashion designers. You're playing. What do you, you are playing. What does that even mean?
I thought you're referring to the tweet. All of them. There's a full set of things that you're
under attack for the tweet and everything beyond that. But like you're, you're blaming,
not blaming, but you're saying that the Jewish media, the Jewish record labels, the Jewish
people, forget Jewish or not. It doesn't matter. It's playing victim, right?
Ultimately, I am fighting a battle in the spiritual form and anyone that believes in God
and is looking at this interview would agree with that. And I just so happen to be a bright part
of God's army. I'm fighting for us to live. The greatest gift is life itself. I am pro-life.
I am pro-God. I believe that Jesus Christ is our Lord and Savior and died for our sins.
What do you feel about another attack, another painful thing? I imagine it's super painful,
is Balenciaga pulling, you had a really close relationship and friendship with their creative
director. Like how do you feel about all of it? I told you I sang the song. I'll sing another song
from one of my mentors' future. I never felt pain. I didn't felt too much pain. Like there was a day
where I was headed to Nashville to meet with George Farmer, who was the CEO of Parla, the day
when we made the announcement. At that same day, Balenciaga was taking my imagery off of their
site and the drink champs was being taken down. And I said, this is the happiest day of my life.
I love cutting the grass low. People wasn't really with you. They was part-time. People switch up
when it's wartime. I'd rather have people who are really with me and that people who are just
trying to use me. Listen, as a friend, somebody cares for you. You have to be really careful.
By the people, by all people always, the people that are going to try to be close to you now,
you don't know if you can trust them. Even more. With the Balenciaga, I have more to say about it
though. Yeah. Let's do this. Dimna will still work for Yay someday. And this is just speeding the
process up. Have you talked? Can you share if you've talked? Yes, I talked to Dimna. We're
Kendrick Spirits. None of this can keep us away from each other. I brought Dimna to Gap to be able
to bring the best product in the world. At that time, I wanted to go under $100. Now I'm like,
okay, we're going to go $20 a product. I brought Dimna in to engineer. That's why I said engineer
by Balenciaga, Yeezy Gap engineer by Balenciaga, to engineer the best product for the people. The
people that they say are at the bottom of the Maslow hierarchy need chart, they're at the bottom
of the pyramid. Gap didn't want that. Balenciaga didn't want that. Our genders were not aligned.
I was brought in to the Gap for political reasons and influence, like a Virgil, like a George Floyd.
When popular celebrities are brought into Fortune 500 companies, it's not to raise the stock.
It's to strengthen the position and influence. And it's definitely not to be out here letting a
nigga think he's Steve Jobs. Yeah, there's people like that. But you, as a great man and visionary,
your job is to understand that game and be one step ahead. Well, that's why I'm telling them.
That relationship, you know, some relationships only last for a summer.
Yeah. You know, some last for a year, the relationship ran its course. You know,
in that relationship, I invested a lot of my social capital and actual capital.
I spent somewhere between five to $10 million personally on Balenciaga. How much money do you
think Balenciaga had paid me in the past two years? Just take a really wild guess, a really wild
less than that. Just take a super wild one. Just go to the furthest extent of your imagination.
1.2 million. Lower. 500,000. Lower. Zero. Zero. All right. And actually, two weeks ago,
I paid at a Saints account, $862,000, not in clothes for me from Balenciaga, from the store,
in royalties to Balenciaga, where the deal had been engineered, where I was coming out of my
pocket. So I paid, last year, I paid Demna $3 million to design the collection, right? And we
got it out of the Gap Marketing Fund. And he was going to deliver 160 skews or 120 skews.
100 skews are separate items of clothing, so styles of clothing. So he ended up delivering
about 60. I feel like we're on the people's court because we actually are, right? We're in the court
of public opinion. So he delivered about 60. There were all kinds of people that were working.
Part of the reason why I had to give Demna, I wanted to compete with him. I didn't want to
have to get him. When I made Stronger, I did it to compete with Timbaland and Justin Timberlake,
because my fiance at that time liked Justin Timberlake just a little bit too much. So I made
it to compete. And then we had the song out. It's number one on Apple. It's blowing up. I play it
in a club and it sounds muddy. It doesn't sound the way Sexy Back sounded in the club. So I go to
Pharrell Williams to do the drums. And it doesn't... It sounds like a different record.
And though it can't be a different record, because I'm like, I'm going to swap it out on radio,
right? Then I go to Swiss Beats. It sounds like a different record. I go to Timbaland,
the person who did Sexy Back, and he did it in five minutes and then spent the rest of the hour
talking about how nobody could have done it, except for him, running around the studio.
I'm the best. No one could have done it. That's why he had to go to me. He had to go to the king.
He had a point, right? He had a point, right? So...
What makes us so muddy? Is it the beat? It was in the drums. It was some that Timbaland had in
those drums. Like, now, watch this. I said I'm going Def Con 3, right? And the actual...
I spelled it wrong. I have a tendency to do that. I'm not quite John Legend,
tight sweater level, spelling B level. So I feel a parallel to me going to Timbaland
to when I said, hey, you as an engineer, I need to work with you as an engineer that is Jewish
to look at these contracts and what my people, not just black people, let's say artists,
are dealing with in our contracts. These contracts need to be fixed.
Everyone could be so mad at the messenger, right? Yay, you said it the wrong way.
You're offensive. You're like Hitler now because you said it. You said this out loud,
but it does not... You weren't getting enough sleep. All this shit does not negate the fact
that we do have Houston, we have a problem. Yeah, but we is just the music industry.
Like, there's a lot of hate that was created by just saying that, you know?
But you're saying what is just, is everything to me, right? Yeah, yeah.
One person can mean everything to me, right? And for George Bush, winning an election was
everything. And then when you said George Bush doesn't care about black people, that you woke
him up. You woke the people up to the fact that he was narrowly being selfish. There's a sense to
which you're being corrupted by your own greatness. You're focusing too much on the industry that
you've made great, that you've rose to the very top. One of the richest artists in history,
one of the greatest designers... I'm not... I am the richest artist in history. Probably the
richest artist in history. Yeah, I don't... They say... The funny thing is they're like, oh,
rich is black, but it's like, oh, also rich is actor, rich is musician, rich is fashion designer,
like it's a bunch of riches in that one. You know what I'm saying? It's like richer than Ralph
Laurent, like richer than Amani, like richest, like of that, but still low. Because where do
you put that on the totem? Because I don't even want to... Man's bank account is in everything.
I would say you and I are equal in a certain deep sense, no matter what the bank account says.
So I wanted to give you some theme music for your moments. It's not a little muddy.
Let me give you the Timberland version. Thank you.
So the other thing about, like say, like Balenciaga is
Demna will work with Ye someday and
for Cedric and for Francois Pinot and Salma is a beautiful human being.
Five years from now, you'll hear and know the name Ye and know things that we did
and Balenciaga is not going to make it onto your questions. Would you, as a gambling man,
would you bet on that? I would bet on that. I can see it in your eyes.
So it was actually a sad day for me, not for me,
but more for Balenciaga. When I heard that, I was just like, oh, shame.
Let me ask you a silly question just about Demna. I read something that you two talked about,
like buttons for a few hours. They're my gum drop buttons.
Just an added accent. Me and Demna only speaking Shrek.
What's your philosophy with which you approach design? You are one of the great fashion designers
of our time. How do you think about it? Do you have a philosophy?
You know what I like about the zipper is the zipper, the zipper hoodie replaces the dress shirt
because you could get on your douchebag shit and like unzip it and give it a little bit of
that type of look. Which is the douchebag?
The douchebags that go to Vegas unbutton their dress shirt. The problem with the pullover hoodie
is you can't do the douchebag thing when you unbutton it, but then still get the stomach
because the thing is the ultimate look would be like a military tank pullover hoodie and if you
get a little hot, you take off the hoodie, but you're like crazy in shape.
So it gives you that flexibility?
Yeah, the zipper is giving some flexibility and it's like maybe you want to keep your jacket
on. This is considered like a hoodie to be like a jacket. If you want to keep your jacket on, then
you might want to do this as well as pulling it all the way off. It's just comfort, but then you get
can I do a jogging pant on this with elasticity? Now people argue about climate,
where we are with the climate. I take responsibility as being the most influential
designer of all time to say we're going to use biodegradable clothing. Now the issue there is
the elastic is not biodegradable. So that means it's actually better to use jeans and a belt
than to have an elastic waistband because elastic waistband is not biodegradable.
So I use the planet as a big, the future of the planet is a big piece of the way I engineer
and the way we talk about where designs are going.
The constraints on your design and engineering is given by the planet, by the future of the planet.
Yes. That could almost make Jewish people like me again.
Every time you say Jewish people, I think I've been maybe reading a little too much about
Warlord or two, but man, I recommend you listen to some audio books or read some books on the
Holocaust because like it's heavy. It's heavy. It will put into context the impact of your words.
Would you read books on the current Holocaust that Black people are in?
What have you read about abortion? I've read a lot of short form writing and I listened to a lot
of debates because it's really humbling that the question of when does life begin is a really
difficult question. For me, it is an engineering scientist. It's a philosophical question.
I mean, we could just go on population control, not like if abortion is right or wrong.
We could say factually, the clinics were made by eugenics for population control and it is
controlling the population as is the never being given a 40 acres in a mule. So you don't have the
opportunity and when the people that do have the opportunity are separated from our people,
our tribe, and placed in suburban communities next to us, Chris Rocker put it, the dentist,
and whitewashed and made to shut the fuck up and vote left or whatever niggers are supposed
to do when we make it. As opposed to saying, okay, we're building schools, we're building up choirs,
we're building up our own leagues, basketball teams, our own factories. We started the first
sportswear factory in America since World War II was actually this factory I put in Cody.
So when I'm 45 years old, we're on this journey right now. This is the other thing about this,
people, just in general, they love me so much. I'm actually a hard guy to really hate for a
long period of time because of my huge cock. That's what I noticed. I didn't understand why
you showed it to me when we first met, but now I understand. It's very nice. Congratulations.
I know you don't talk about it, but your hat does say 24. If you run for president,
what kind of ideas would you represent?
That we're beings with engineering opportunities, I would represent.
Just as you served a platform here, there's something that happened on my last run that
I thought, I feel, I know was brilliant. It was noisy, but it was brilliant. I had one rally,
and in the rally, I just let people come up and I gave them a platform. It's our responsibility
to listen to the pain and hear the pain and understand, even when we're the ones that
cause the pain, like with my tweet. It's my responsibility to hear you and understand
why you feel like that, but it's our responsibility as a people to understand each other,
to give people a voice. People need the voice, and even right now, what I'm doing or how God
is using me, I'm showing where our voices are being muted. There's professors that are actually
intelligent, actually have multiple degrees that have been canceled from their schools,
and they don't have a music industry, or a fan base, or a shoe design, or a smoking hot ex-wife
to complain about. They've just got the truth of what they saw and what they dedicated to this
country and to education that has been muted by schools that have been taken over with an agenda,
and so you want the brightest minds to be these professors, and then you mute them,
and they have nowhere to go, and you might get a guy now that went from being someone's
favorite professor to he's working at Starbucks like he was back in school, or like he was back
in high school. So even if that voice is about anger and hate, it still deserves to be heard?
Yeah, it deserves to be heard, and we deserve to ask why. You have to ask why. I just feel
like that's what's- I feel like that is- sympathize with Mr. Hugecock. I'm just saying that it just
needs to be- You should change that to your name on Twitter while you're still allowed on there.
Yeah, do you think that would get censored? I feel like they definitely cut it down as
of interest. The- I'm pointing out this- I'm pointing out this truth. Now I'm saying this
is not a Christian thing, right? And you know, I wonder right there, when I say these jokes,
is it something that- because I do feel like laughter is the key- engineering and laughter,
right? Is the key to peace. Like when I go get my teeth cleaned and I have the nitrous, there's
something that I want to go and hug Christian, or I want to go and hug Corey Gamble. I want to go
and hug Howard Stern. No one wants to hug Howard Stern, but you know, just if-
No, no, no, no. Let's- I think- I would love to see you two hug it out and make up, even though all
the shit talking back and forth. What about talking it out, or is he going to be screaming at me?
Yeah, judgmental and that kind of stuff. No, I hope- I hope there's love there.
You know, the thing is, I think Howard's just jealous. You know, not just- not just jealous of
my cock. He's also- he's jealous that I started my campaign earlier than him.
You gotta let go of that jealousy. You gotta let go of that jealousy, Howard.
Howard and everybody else. Jealous is a natural human thing, man.
I wonder just as a Christian, right, when I joke and say this stuff, I- it's like, hmm, am I being
disobedient to God? Because as a boss, right, I'll talk to an employee and I'll be like,
why didn't you just listen? Because I've got the bigger plan, right? So it's like me talking to God,
were there things that I did in this interview that were disobedient to God? And- and for those
things, I- I pray and I repent for anything that I've said that was disobedient to God.
Humor is not one of them. Jokings. I feel like humor is the way we avoid so much suffering
in the world. It's the way to- it's like a catalyst for love. Like it's a way to-
people that have gone through some of the darkest trauma that I've ever met through war,
I just came back from Ukraine, they're laughing. They're- they're making jokes. That's the best
way to deal with dark times. I don't know what it is about, like humans. I feel like humor,
that's the best way to social engineer a good future. I think it's humor. Not taking
shit too seriously. That's the problem with censorship. One of the things that really suffer
is humor. Jokes. Maybe going too far in the jokes. You mentioned Anthony Jocelynik. That guy goes
hard. That guy goes really hard and it's great. He crosses all- he crosses all the lines and he's-
that's why he's a genius. And that's what people feel is refreshing when he does it. I don't know
what it is. But then it's like hurtful when I do it. But I'll tell you something that was interesting.
I'm pretty sure Anthony doesn't like- sorry for the assumption, but just most comedians I know
didn't vote for Trump. That's interesting. That's saying there aren't comedians that did,
but just the ones I know because I live in California, right? But they have an appreciation
for Trump because of the sense of humor. Yeah. Gotta ask you about parlor and engineering because
I'm interested about that. Hey man, I'm actually trying to hold it together. You're pretty- you're
pretty offensive towards a lot and- I'm not looking to be offensive. I really want to bring
people together and get these sales done. I know, but the work- 100% I see your vision.
How do we do that? With somebody who care- well, don't say Jewish media and Jewish controlled media.
J.M. Man, you sound- you sound like- it sounds too much like 1930s Nazi Germany
that was leading up to the atrocities. Oh, he would say J.M.? Yeah, he was a brand of J.M. That's
right. No, it's just the implied, like this memified prejudice towards a group in a way
that's going to lead to hate. And I know you don't mean that. I know you have love in your heart.
That's what I'm trying to- You know what was the prejudice towards a group that led to hate?
BLM. BLM took a black person, showed his death on camera, because okay, there are examples of
us being killed and being killed on camera, but if it was spread on camera, it was done on purpose
by the media, because 14, 20 kids get killed in Chicago every week, and it's not spread that much.
They, like you said, singled out a person, directed everything on that person, right,
as the martyr, and raised the people that hadn't had any- we didn't have our 40 acres of the mule,
we didn't have, you know, like a lot of things, right? Like that black people have not ever been
given. So once we're given just a little bit, like your life matters, right? Then we literally like,
okay, now we're being hurt, right? But actually, the death toll is up. The city where this happened
is completely been turned to a war zone. They actually, it's actually something like Candace
Owens can actually specify this better, but it's like its own city or something. They made it not
be a part of the actual state or something. It's like DC and stuff. It's like Washington DC now
and stuff, and that has to be from a government. You know, that's got higher level agenda written
all over it. Yeah, they're using the death of an individual. Yeah, sure, the media are,
not the Jewish media, the media, and that's the media is fucked up. That machine
does, takes whatever tragedy and pushes it towards whatever narrative that gets more clicks and views
and so on. Sure, and then politicians do the same. They use the media to influence the media,
to tell a story. This is a simple thing I put. I believe that the idea of anti-Semitism and
the closeness of the Holocaust is used by certain individuals in media to not take
accountability for the bad things that are happening. What's happening is there's a new
frontier, meaning it used to be okay for somebody to be a billionaire. We thought about a billionaire,
a lot of times you think of them actually kind of being out of shape, and 20 years ago, 30 years
ago, like Onassis or something. You thought about a different way. Now you think about a
billionaire. You think about Elon. You think Kim. You think, yay, you think it's a new kind of
billionaire. It's not just Soros is a billionaire. It's a new form of billionaire. Well, right now,
what I'm calling for the industry is, I'm calling the industry out and saying, hey,
it just so happens that there's been times where I had my lawyer was Jewish, my regular was Jewish,
like eight people that basically would collude and talk without me were in groups saying, okay,
this is what the tour is going to be. This is this next house, and they were making all these
decisions, and they're making all this money. And at the end, I was like, I ended my tour,
and I don't have the money. And it just so happens that that's the case, that what they were. But
what I'm saying is, if everyone can say, hey, you can't point out this fact, or we're going to say
you're anti-Semitic, and we're going to call you Hitler, I feel that there has to be at least
1% of safeguarding the ability to screw the artist based on saying it's anti-Semitic
by pointing out that they just so happen to all be Jewish. And I don't think that's anti-Semitism.
I just think that's, hey, this is another thing like, okay, the Kardashians, when you hear that,
do you think male or do you think female? You think female. You get what I'm saying? You think
this is the realities. This is why rap works, right? They're going to make an anti-women thing
in a second, right? And it's going to say, well, if you point out that these five women, six women,
are having a meeting on where the Christmas party is, and none of the ballplayers or rappers
that they have babies with have any say so, so that Christmas happened at Courtney's house
all eight years when I was there. And it never happened at anyone else's black family house,
right? If I'm the one that pointed it out, they just don't have, they don't have their,
or your anti-Semitic word to say, shut the fuck up. Because this is the way it runs and
this is the way we want to do it. If you say that though that women are silencing the black voice,
yes, you're going to get the same response, but especially if it historically resonates.
But what about the fact that it's true? When you talk in groups, that breeds hate.
When you talk about individuals, it solves problems. You're an engineering.
Okay, but this is something I pointed out on Pierce. I said, if a black person gets pulled over with a
car, and it's three other people in the car, they're also going to jail. They're not going to
single them out. They're going to say, you guys are all in collusion. I just described collusion
five times in this interview. And you keep on going back to this is like 1930. This is like this.
This is like that. What I'm saying is look, I want to work with you as an engineer to free
my people. Can we start as a being with engineer opportunities right here? I am sorry to the
people who had to be hurt and affected by that. Now we are here and I'm looking to solve it.
But what happens is every time if I talk to any of these business people one by one,
because mind you, I didn't get to the tweet by not having a conversation. I had the conversations
beforehand before I got to the tweet. Now we're going to take it to the stage. Now we're on the
world stage, right? And you saw Ari Emanuel do exactly the kind of thing that I was saying had
been done behind closed doors. Now he's doing it in open doors. They told Candice Owens,
I couldn't be on the daily wire. Like you can't even explain yourself and we don't care how you
got to that point either. And that's fucked up. They told Candice you can't be on daily.
Is that even about... Yes, she did. That's what they said. And you know what? And you can have
my voice raised or lower. I'm going to do it lower, right? Because what's happening to me by
I put it in your words, the media is saying not only can you not explain yourself, we don't care
how you got to that point. You need to apologize and you can't explain. And that's the end of the
story. So just apologize so we can have Mel Gibson do some more films is exactly what Ari Emanuel
was saying. No one is looking to change the problem that led so many people to that same
level of frustration. And I just so happened to be the one that's not going to back up on it
until this changes. Because you know what? I'm sorry. I had a sleepy text. I'm sorry. I'm sorry
for everything. I'm sorry that I put that I was 512 or 511 on Tinder. Okay. My cock is not 14
inches. I lied. Okay. It's only 13. Yeah. So I'm sorry, right? So the...
Why are you dropping so many facts today? So what I'm saying is, but where do we get to this?
Because even you, as engineering, as intelligent as you are, you just like everyone else that I
say and was colluding won't let us get to the point of fixing it. Yeah. But I'm not, I think you're
more powerful than the media. I'm not saying you need to apologize because the media I'm saying
everything we've been talking about just because I care for you and I want you to be
the best possible man you can be. To me, a definition of a great man, I'm with Martin
Luther King on this. You don't talk about Jews or black people. You talk about engineering.
You talk about humanity. You solve problems. You identify the problems in the world and you don't
come from a place of resentment. This group did this, this, fuck all that. That is in the past.
You just build solutions. I'm going to create a new record label. I'm going to create a new
design firm. I'm going to create a new social network. I'm going to do it better. I'm going to
do it right. I'm going to do it right by the people that I know don't have a voice. I'm going to
give them a voice and talk about that. Is it okay to call out collusion? Do people collude in your
business? Under you? Like the engineers that come together and say, they collude against the bosses,
right? You know why Bernardo No offered the deal and took it away from me? Collusion.
Because I was too powerful with the collective that I had right there. He had to stop that at all
costs. They said, for whatever reason, this kid, yay, it has the ability to have all of the Kardashians,
Jay-Z and Beyonc, Justin Bieber, Demna, Virgil, all these people in the same room working towards
the same goal. I've been that person since preschool. That's called a leader, right?
And right now, what I'm saying is, hey, for the people in business, whatever their background
is, whether they turn their cell phones off on Friday or not, there's been some bad business
done. There's some bad business practices. And we have to change that because this game is like
boxing. More people end up retarded than rich. And I'm saying like beat to a pulp, driven crazy,
beat by the media to a pulp. Right now, the media has done everything they could to make me apologize
and to make me look crazy. And that one person has done anything to find out why I was frustrated
enough to do that tweet. And that's facts. And that's fucked up. Well, I was hoping to. I am
finding out. We found out. I mean, but I want solutions. See, there's something about human
nature where if you focus too much on resentment. We're not focusing on anymore. Fuck the resentment.
We're moving forward. Right. So there's two things I think that are required for. I mean,
this is how I've lived my life for great engineering. You surround yourself in your
personal life by people you trust. And then in your professional life from the engineering
perspective with the team, with an incredible team, and everything else doesn't matter. That
allows you not to focus on other groups, how they're fucking you over, how they're like trying to
manipulate a collude and all that kind of stuff. You focus on solutions and you find a way around
all the difficult shit. That's it. If you have people in your life, you can trust.
That's like lifelong. You said like some people you're with for the summer,
for a year, find people you can be with for your whole life. Do you have people in your life
that you trust? Like really trust? No, I trust God. At any point, a human being can like,
I could like, if I like go and like, really, you know, treat this guy like a piece of shit or do
this and that, am I supposed to, you know, trust him to be loyal and stay in the situation? No,
I trust people to be people and people are flawed. And people can have the right intentions,
but it only makes sense for us to work together when our agendas align. When Kim was pulled
really far to the left, our agendas no longer, you know, aligned so that made the marriage
impossible. It aligned where it's like, oh, I could wear a red hat that can help her to get
Alice Johnson out of jail because Trump's willing to do that for my wife because I was the only
person in my position that stood up and say, wait a second, I like you, you know, because
but isn't there a deeper agenda, the human agenda of just being in love? Like that's just
Paul. What you're talking about, red hat is just politics, right? I mean, the world is becoming
more and more transactional every day. And actually, marriages are actually, actually
originally based on transactions, you know, and that's why they're less needed, the more autonomous
as we come, or the world makes it less needed. I feel like we do need each other. I feel like we
do need someone we can always, you know, count on. It's like, I'm yay, pulled away by King Koopa,
which is the media, the politics, the promise, oh, we're going to keep you safe. So the thing,
the reason why I get, you know, really frustrated with Chris Jenner is she says losing Rob Kardashian
was the greatest mistake of her life, but she never gave Kim's hand over in marriage,
because this is the bottom line. When me and Kim met, we were millionaires or whatever, right?
You're telling me you just hand her hand over in marriage that your daughter's not successful,
handing your hand over in marriage to, but no, she had to still be the husband to all of her
daughters. And we see what the results are consistently. So that's where I get, you know,
frustrated. It's like, let that go. Let this person do what you made mistakes on. Don't make
this person relive those same mistakes and then put that agenda into my daughters too.
Is there somebody in your life close to you that you trust enough to call you out on your
bullshit? We're all full of shit sometimes. What's my bullshit? Well, some of it I pointed out today,
but I don't know you deeply enough. What was the bullshit? Jewish media, Jewish...
That's not bullshit. The bullshit is that the Jewish media won't admit...
Your dad was right. Your dad was right. The words you used, you weren't...
And I said it, you're not going to make me say it 800 more times.
I don't know if you resonate it, because you keep saying like the words...
Did it resonate to y'all that y'all ain't do nothing about it? And that all y'all want to do
is have somebody apologize and sweep under the rug your bullshit that you've been doing the whole
time. You want the same bullshit as the other people. So you're doing the same thing that the
other, let's say, media, because I'm not allowed to say, has done. So until somebody says...
Which is what, man? Which is what? I'm trying to call you out on your bullshit because I hope
I'm somebody you can trust. That's it. I don't fucking trust you.
Well, you should find people in your life you can trust. Don't tell me what I should do.
I'm not one of your BLM marchers. Listen, I'm with you on the BLM. A lot of organizations
use tragedy. And I watched the Candice Owens documentary.
And what was your take on it? I think it's important to question the mainstream narratives,
but I don't agree with it. I still believe that George Floyd died from the knee of the cop,
not from fentanyl. And even if that was the case, there's still 50% of Black deaths is actually
abortion. So let's get into engineering. Let's just go... How do you fix that?
Population control is social engineering and its most literal form. The Blacks that are under
population control, that's something that... I mean, that's just what it is.
African Americans are not choosing to get at the abortion. I mean, it's a choice. It's an individual
choice. But we're being influenced to. Well, then speak to the community and help. I mean,
I don't know what the engineering solutions there are. It could be you're doing that in part
by speaking to the value and the power of family. Well, watch this. I was building
shelters. I bought land in Calabasas. I bought two ranches in Wyoming, 300 acres in Calabasas,
12,000 acres in total in Wyoming. And I started building ideas for shelters.
And God set it on my heart to make monasteries, which would be modern day facilities that don't
turn people down, that have farms, that have shelter, clothing. But first of all, water.
First of all, knowledge, because knowledge is the most important resource to our species
above water. Knowledge, it's itself. Because then you can go get water. I mean, you can argue like
if you're a baby, how do you go out? But the baby doesn't have it. So someone with the knowledge
then feeds the baby the water. But it's important that those with the knowledge teach the baby
how to find the water themselves. And the business people that I've been dealing with
have been keeping the baby sick by not sharing the information and the knowledge
with inside of those contracts. My people are sick. If I load up
Apple Music right now, and I play the top songs in the rap chart, I would tell you my people
are sick. If I go to the restaurants in opportunity zones, and we look at the calorie rating and the
cholesterol, I would tell you that my people are sick. If we look at the obesity rate, if you go to
just a restaurant somewhere in middle America, Denny's or something, I went to Denny's the other
day, you will see that my people are sick and my people meaning all people. But black people are
very influential to all people. So if the media picks an overweight black woman and says,
this is body goals, then the media are influencing my people to stay sick. And it just so happens
that that night, I was so frustrated after 20 years that I had to call it out in one tweet
that now, even if I say, hey, okay, I was frustrated for these reasons, now it's not good enough.
You've literally tried to make me re-apologize 10 times in this meeting,
resay this, resay that, but it doesn't change the fact that my people are sick. And I'm the only
person in my position that will say that my people are sick. Today, not 30 years ago, not 60 years,
my people are sick today. 50% of my peoples of deaths are abortion today. My people don't have
the opportunities today, even to the point that because if J.P. Morgan had been nice to me and
if Alex Klein and STEM player had been fair to me, different things, then I wouldn't even point
it out that we don't have any black, we have two black engineers. So I have to have a responsibility
obviously to all people, but specifically to my tribe, because tribes move. Tribalism is real
with black people to separate the brightest from the tribe or to separate the leaders. It is factual
that the CIA removed the leaders from the black community, put crack in the communities, put
guns in the communities, and locked up all the leaders and called them gang leaders, right?
Locked up all the leaders, locked up all the fathers. Now 72% of black mothers are raising
children by themselves. This is an agenda like a Tuskegee experiment set on my people, right?
And what I'm calling out for the black people in entertainment is, what are we doing? We have to
collude. And if we don't collude, because even if I said, hey, I'd like to make a company that's all
black, right? Is that okay for me to say? Is that okay for me to say? Or is that anti-Semitic?
See, if I hadn't crossed the line so far, then that would have sounded anti-Semitic. Now I've
stretched a bit, so now we can go to, okay, let's make an all black company. But that would have
been anti-Semitic. Just that concept, because you could word that in a different way that would
sound anti-Semitic. I don't know, man. No, no, listen, if you were, if I said I didn't want to have the
Jewish people in the company, would that be anti-Semitic? It would sound like it, right? You'd
say I'm from 1930s, right? Yeah. But for me as a tribe to say, no, I want an all black company,
right? I'm generally against that kind of thing. But first of all, you have the right to do whatever
the hell you want. Well, what I'm saying is that's what I feel may need to happen for my people to
have power again, because when my people have been left under the media's control, we've been made
sick. We've been allowed to be sick. We've been, and we're promoting sickness. I think, at least in
the engineering realm, I haven't met an engineer who happens to be black who would like to be called
a black engineer. And when you have a company of all black people that are engineers, I don't know
the creative arts, I apologize. But engineering, they really tried to look at each other's humans
and look at the problem. And you want to know, you want to have the confidence that everybody on the
team is the best possible person for the job. What I can say is the world is sick. And I have
slight images of utopia, slight images of happiness, slight images as a visionary and a creator.
And I know for a fact, the way that business deals have been done for me are keeping the world sick.
Fix them. I see that's what you're trying to do. And you probably listen, people should not doubt
you. But I got to tell you, I have to be honest. This is silly because you don't know me.
But it hurt when you say you don't trust me. You kind of lost me. I don't think anyone's ever said
that to me. I don't know, man. Fuck that. I don't care about views or clickbait or any of that bullshit.
I just thought you were one of the greatest artists ever. It'd be cool to talk to you.
And I feel like you got pain you're working through. And never had anyone say that to me.
I'm just being a mess about it, I guess. It's fucked up though. But maybe it's not.
Maybe you shouldn't trust it, but I just haven't had that experience.
Yeah. Do you think I would trust anybody at this point in my life?
Yeah, it's tough. It's tough. I hear you. And it's also kind of good to see how much strength you got.
You're not broken by any of this. You're under a lot of attack.
A lot of attack by a lot of people. You have a vision and you're trying to feel your way through
it. And you might get destroyed for it. That's the human, that's the risk you take.
It's a wonderful life though. What do you hope your legacy is?
To be forgotten. Do you think you'd be forgotten?
Because the memory, there's ego and memory in the memories. Who designed the sidewalk?
Who designed the water fountain? Who designed the stop sign? Who designed the stop light?
These things are so ubiquitous that the person that designed them is forgotten.
If it's a good idea, it's a God idea. And I don't know, VCs can own it.
So you want your designs in all rounds of life to be so simple that they
permeate everything. They take over. And you're forgotten. That's a successful design.
Is you're forgotten? Yes.
Do you have advice for people? A lot, a lot, a lot of young people look up to you.
Do you have advice for young people of how to live a life they can be proud of?
Don't tweet while you're sleepy.
Take a nap?
Surely there's other things. I love the humor. Don't take it seriously, I suppose.
That's what that means.
We don't send sleepy tweets unless you buy your own social platform the very next week
called Parler. But other than that, if you're not going to buy your own social platform,
is that why you bought Parlers so you could be sleepy and send messages out into the world?
I actually am really interested in the engineering aspects of Parler. Is there a vision there?
Because I'm also super interested in Elon by Twitter.
I like Instagram better than Twitter. And I'm sure Mark Zuckerberg liked Instagram better than
Facebook or saw how valuable that was and he bought it.
So you'd like to take Parler or something, whatever is the magic that makes Instagram work,
you want to push there?
I thought it was interesting how it felt like Snapchat made the Kardashians bully Instagram.
What's the point of Snapchat going to war on Instagram?
Yeah, I mean, just everyone wants to say, well, this is our value, Snapchat.
No one wants to lose their value to someone else's value, whatever.
And everything is just, what's the difference between permanent and temporary?
Is this a permanent structure? And until God says it's not, it's like nothing's permanent.
Our life is not permanent. So how do we just let go of those things?
Even like going from the name Kanye West to Yay was the beginning of just letting go
of some things, of these titles. Like we need to remove the titles like, hey,
if I have to leave Adidas and I have to go next computers, that may take me out of the
billionaire standing all together. And I got to get low for having long God says I have to get low
and refocus. I've been reshaping, refocusing my staff. I had some people that were good
and I had some people that weren't. I had too many people and I've got a vision inside of me.
And I'm like, this is how I make this vision. I have to bring this vision to life.
I have to bring these houses to life. I was talking to one of our architects on,
you know, we're actually getting close on it. I've like built it a few times. I had like the
domes you probably saw and I said, you know, how we transform Kim's house and we're getting there.
So you want to get into architecture? Like you really want this to become physical reality?
Yes. And I've got close. Rome wasn't built to the day.
Yeah, but Rome had to start somewhere. I got to call you out on the advice.
There really is a lot of people that look up to you and you've lived a really difficult life
and you made it through all of it. What do you advise them to do?
Do everything that you feel. Even if you are told that it's the wrong thing. No, no, no, no, no,
no, but not anything violent. So do what you feel. Say what you feel. Like trust your heart.
Yeah, trust your gut. Trust your instincts because that instinct is who God made you to be.
Not, you know, what lines up with your like frat brothers or what lines up with
what your dad wanted or what lines up with your classmates or, you know, it's just
God has something inside of you and when you walk down the street, you're thinking about it
and then you just see it in the window and you go down another street and you see the same thing
or you're thinking about a number and that number pops up or you see it on a license plate and that's
just, you know, something is trying to say be the maximum. Yay. You know, be the maximum you
and God won't give you anything that you can't handle. So for me, everything is a yes. I think
they say be like water. I know Bruce Lee said that or a matter of fact, just be
because we are beings with engineering opportunities.
Beautifully put. Yay. I have hope. I have faith that however this turns out that
you have the skill and the capacity to really add love to the world and I hope you do that.
I really, really hope you do that and we talked about the tension of that, the challenges and
the opportunities of that. I mean, I see how we could be of use to each other. You actually have
a particular thing for me as I eject from media because even also, you know, I'm really big at
like, you know, burning the Phoenix too. All you know as an engineer that your cells completely
regenerate every seven years. I think I rushed the process a little bit. So I run around looking
like a burn victim sometimes. Yeah. But I gotta tell you, anyone I am close with, I work with,
there has to be trust, there has to be love and I think you've been burned quite a bit in your life.
Sometimes I did it myself. I put my hand on the stove.
Love. So how do we get to engineering? There's a deal to be done here. Not saying you're making
this money off of that. I'm making that money off. I don't care about money, by the way.
Same twins. So there's dealings here. You got pain, I got pain, but we're beings with
engineering opportunities. For a long time, I thought somebody should create a new social network
and it looks like great engineering could do that. You got two at one time from two of your
homeboys at one time. Yeah. And that's a great way. I mean, every, you know, it can be done from
scratch or it can be done anew with an already established platform. Yeah. I'm very excited
by that possibility. Parler is smaller. Twitter is larger. I wonder whether you can do any kind of
revolutionary engineering with a large company. If anyone can, I would say it's Elon.
Well, Elon can look at what we do over here. That's why I like, God does this a lot of times.
He creates doppelgangers. There's a lot of examples where theory happened two places at
one time. A really similar type of personality happens at one time.
It's weird. It's beautiful. It's hilarious, actually. It's kind of humorous.
So we should just share every piece of information together as I go build
Parler and as he builds up Twitter and see how to make both those better. But I'll be like,
hey, I'm not going to let Snapchat bully me out of adding something to it that's best. It should
just be the best platform possible. That means TikTok has amazing features.
Twitter has amazing things about it. I know this girl that's like, I like Instagram better than
Twitter. She likes that Twitter has porn. But other than that, Instagram. But I was like,
Instagram is porn also. It's soft. It's more subtle. It's not telling you. It's not
it's not conservative by any means.
And that's the thing. You have to please a lot of people with these platforms.
And I think the goal of a platform should be to help individuals
maximize their long-term happiness and growth, like intellectually, spiritually,
psychologically, all of that. And it's a tricky thing to figure out how to do that.
Of course, you could just have a platform that's just strictly for fun. I think that's
where TikTok leans. But there has, I think there's a balance to strike. Like Twitter,
there's a lot of intellectual philosophical stuff going on on Twitter, but it somehow
currently makes it too easy to be divisive and hateful towards each other and cancel and all
that kind of stuff. I think we need to have these healthy conversations. That's what it is,
healthy conversations, healthy dialogues. That's the biggest thing. Like when I first wore the red
hat, the conversation is less healthy than it is today. The conversation about George Floyd,
you know, it's like, did I send the tweet the right way? Did his Candace Owens documentary
perfect? Is it Michael Moore? Is that documentary a perfect century self? Is it fully accurate?
You know, it's two to three hours of a transmit of information through a particular, usually one
person's view. And anything you want to research, if you're interested in it,
you got to look at 10 versions of it, 20 versions of it. George Floyd, we've looked at one version
of that. Now we have a second. Well, by the time we get to the, you know, I know this is like,
it's not my last hoodie, but it's definitely not my first hoodie that I put on. You know,
it's like, that's how we got to, like even this particular size of zipper or the fact that, you
know, for people who know, they know that that's like car heart, even though the car heart tag
isn't there anymore, you just know by the shape of it, you feel it. So it abstracts, it takes into
like this Cubist place, like Picasso, Matisse, or African Cubism, or Dire Straits Money for nothing,
and your chicks for free. Look at that. I wouldn't think you'd reference Dire Straits. Look at you.
That video. Yeah, I know. It's a great video. Your encyclopedic knowledge of music is great.
I think that, you know, porn is not just sexual. That term actually relates to torture. Like,
you know what I'm saying? Like watching people beat each other up on, on Worldstar or something,
you know, it's like, that's called torture porn. There's also food porn. How do you explain that?
What's food porn? Food porn is like looking at really delicious cakes and cookies and steak and so
on. And you're like, holy shit. Exactly. Architecture. Like this people who love architecture,
when they see architecture, I know, I got friends that would be like, oh, that's porn.
Yeah. Architecture. Yeah. Yeah, it's like,
that's like love, like dopamine fueled love for a thing. Yeah, we need, that's beautiful. I think
that's beautiful. Well, I think as long as nobody's getting hurt. The intoxication that people have,
you know, the worst part is like, when one person's in love and the other person's in like,
that's us right now. Well, who's in like? No, because you said you love Bill Maher and you like me.
And I love you. So that was, no, I actually love you both. All right. All right. And the funny thing
is like, as a visionary, visionaries are more extreme than business people. Because a visionary
would do bad business for their vision. A business person will never do bad business.
It's well put. Yeah, it's really well put. So when you say I don't care about money, it's like,
yeah, I feel you. Like I feel that I care in a way that I need that. But
I care about the vision that I have to a Steve Jobs level to the point of putting that above
my regular human existence, meaning having to go and take all the arrows,
that I become a soldier of the vision. Because someone could say, a wife could say to,
like say, like in the 60s, their husband's about to go to war. The wife may not want
their husband to go to war because of their children. But he's going to war
because of their children.
Definitely. Do you regret any aspect of just giving everything to your vision?
I mean, you've spoken about that saying like, I got fucked over in the business side.
I promise that I had to stop envying
cool people at their current cool time. If anything, if someone's cool, and I say their name a lot,
I'm going to flash the light on them so much that it ages their coolness. It's actually a war
technique, showered in compliments. Because to be able to stay at 45 years old is still
be the bad kid in class. At 45, I'm still in the principal's office. Because if you look at,
like say fashion, right? If you think of something fashionable, it's probably going to look like the
kid in the principal's office. That's going to be the fashion. And that's part of the reason why
I'm the most influential person at fashion. And fashion because I refuse to leave the principal's
office. If the substitute teacher comes in, I'm going to say, you got a big butt.
Yeah. Right back to the principal's office. And people are going to be like, yo.
And that's what you keep on saying. Like, who can we talk to? Because no one can talk to me.
No, I'm out of control, bro. It's just God, then me, and then fuck everybody. That's
really how I live my life. And I just want to say this one thing about the children thing,
I wanted to put that point together, put that idea together that I don't like the word point.
I'm really big on words, words being powerful, says the person with the sleepy tweet.
You're full of contradictions.
Yeah. I'm a human being, right? It's like, some days I'm like, I could go 30 days and be sullable.
You know, like really like I'm a monk. I'm being like faithful to God. And then I'll go like working
out. No carbs. Like my weight will fluctuate. And I'll have times I'm like, I don't feel like
being told what to do. So I don't want to work out with a trainer. And I just want to drink this
Hennessy. But I want to say this thing that I will text to Kim sometimes. I'll say, you may not
understand what I'm doing right now, but you will. And that's what I would say to everyone.
You may not understand what I'm doing. And this gives a little bit, maybe we're like 20% there,
but there's still going to be people, we leave this interview and they were like,
I still don't like the way you apologize. I still don't want to say what my involvement would have
been to make him lead them to that point. And we just want things to be how they are. There's
people in the world who want the world to stay as it is. And there's people who want to change the
world. And that's happened throughout time. They say that with Da Vinci halfway into a conversation,
he could not suffer fools so much that he would walk away halfway into the conversation.
And I said, well, that's why it's the Da Vinci code and not the Da Vinci world. And every time
I go and piss off a group of people or do these things, on some end, it's like I could be turning
my thing from a potential world vision to a code, or I could be opening up conversations with new
friends that I may trust someday. That's beautiful. Because the change you will have on the world,
that you don't know for sure, but it'll happen across years, even decades. So you have to think
in the future. Like you're working in the future. Your actions are working in the future. And a
lot of people will judge this conversation and others you've done and so on in the present. And
that doesn't matter. You know why I apologize? Why I say I'm sorry to the Jewish people that I hurt?
It's not about, like I said, I'm not going to hold this apology hostage. Obviously it's about God,
but God is everything. So what's the point of even having language and you can't engineer if you say
God, God, God. God asks us to be judgmental so that you become a fewer doctor. It's your judgment
that saves grandma. And God puts that in this. We have God inside us. We're a piece of God.
Also, right? So I'm going to go specific to a person. That story about Da Vinci alone
is enough of a reason for me to give a sincere apology to the Jewish people. Because I do believe
that there's a Da Vinci code inside of all of my misspellings and scribbles right here
that God wants me to get to the world. And when I'm in my way, if God has set something on me,
when I'm in my way, I'm in God's way. Now I can point at other people and say, Hey,
you guys are in God's way because you're not listening to me. But if I'm in my way,
I'm not listening to God. And for me to be a philosopher and a leader or whatever other language,
I have to listen to God. So before God, what I would do is start off as a samurai and say,
I'm sorry for hurting you as a Jewish person. I'm sorry for the way that made you feel.
And I'm sorry for the entire population of a race that I feel is actually my brothers because I
classify and feel that I'm also connected with Christ in that way, that my people came from
Africa in that way. And I can't say it's this exact teaching or that exact teaching, but I feel
that there's an important, you know, the sons of Abraham, however we want to word it, right,
for us to come together and bring our different talents together to serve God collectively.
And he, as much of an alien as I am, he does not call for me to alienate. And that's what
the problem has been, especially in politics and in America. He plays America as the TV,
as the radio to the world. We invented rock and roll, right? We are the influencers of the rest
of the planet. We're the youngest startup in history, right? We're the youngest country,
we're the youngest superpower, right? So for me in my position, the fact that I can talk to
Trump one day and be at a game with Kim Kardashian the next day and then be
at Paris Fashion Week, they don't want me to be involved with language of decisive,
divisive language, you know, proving that I can be just as racist as a racist white person.
Oh, I can, I can be a racist black person also. That's not what God has called me to do. So how
do I simplify and say, hey, to you as a visionary, as a, as an engineer, as a person that's giving
me a platform that as my brother, I want to apologize to you for how that made you feel
and to the rest of the people that carry specifically that pain, not the pain that I
talk about. That doesn't seem to be as much of a pain for people when I talk about
the abortion clinics and stuff. That's, it's like, that's the argued pain even in my own community.
Like not everyone thinks that's a pain, but for the Jewish community, it's collectively this was
a pain and I've gone, I've gone so far just psychologically on this journey since that
statement had happened where I didn't want to like give up the candy in my pocket. I didn't
want to say, Hey, I stuck my hand, my hand in the candy jar. I wanted to defend my freedom of
speech. I wanted this, but even with freedom of speech, pain is pain. Causing people to hurt
is not helping. Causing people to hurt is not helping. So that means I have to take a more
sophisticated approach to engineering this problem. This problem is the opportunity.
And yes, that what could some people may deem as a mistake, would it be more genuine if I called
it a mistake? I think I would be hypocritical by calling a mistake with the ending of that,
the idea I'm going to say out loud. So I, I'm not, I don't try to be a hypocrite on purpose.
So, but I will call it a mistake to add a genuine, to be genuine about the feeling with that mistake
with me as a human being, not to justify, but I have to state that God makes no mistakes,
because if I hadn't made that mistake, I wouldn't be in front of you today. And that's not to justify
this sleepy text, but I can tell you're a man that has love in his heart. And I hear that,
I hear it through the words explicitly and implicitly. And I think if we're to engineer a
better future, the way to do that is with love. So as one human to another, I love you, brother.
Thank you for talking today. This is great. I like you too. Son of a bitch.
Thanks for listening to this conversation with Ye, formerly known as Kanye West. To support the
spot guests, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now let me leave you with
some words from Ye himself. Nothing in life is promised except death. Thank you for listening
and hope to see you next time.